# Go API client for cidclient

# Introduction

Crossid API allows you to manage resources in a simple, programmatic way using conventional HTTP requests.

All of the functionality that you are familiar with in the Crossid UI is also available through this API,
allowing you to code actions that suites your requirements.

The rest of this page provides a general overview about the API design and technology that has been implemented.

## Requests

## HTTP Statuses

## Meta

### Sample Links Object

## Rate Limit

## Curl Examples

## OpenAPI Specification

Crossid API conforms the OpenAPI V3 specification.

The goal of The OpenAPI Specification is to define a standard,
language-agnostic interface to REST APIs which

allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities
of the service without access to source

code, documentation, or through network traffic inspection. When properly
defined via OpenAPI, a consumer can

understand and interact with the remote service with a minimal amount of
implementation logic. Similar to what

interfaces have done for lower-level programming, OpenAPI removes the
guesswork in calling the service.


## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 2.0.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```shell
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/oauth2
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```golang
import sw "./cidclient"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```golang
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `sw.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `sw.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `sw.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `sw.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://acme.us.crossid.io/api/v1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*AppsApi* | [**CreateApp**](docs/AppsApi.md#createapp) | **Post** /api/v1/apps | Create a an Application
*AppsApi* | [**Deleteapp**](docs/AppsApi.md#deleteapp) | **Delete** /api/v1/apps | Delete an Application
*JobsApi* | [**GetJob**](docs/JobsApi.md#getjob) | **Get** /api/v1/jobs/{id} | Retrieve a Job.
*OAuth2Api* | [**Oauth2Token**](docs/OAuth2Api.md#oauth2token) | **Post** /oauth2/token | Request a token from the OAuth2 authorization server.
*ResourceTypesApi* | [**CreateResourceType**](docs/ResourceTypesApi.md#createresourcetype) | **Post** /api/v1/resource-types | Create a new Resource Type
*ResourceTypesApi* | [**GetResourceType**](docs/ResourceTypesApi.md#getresourcetype) | **Get** /api/v1/resource-types/{id} | Retrieve an existing Resource Type.
*ResourceTypesApi* | [**ListResourceTypes**](docs/ResourceTypesApi.md#listresourcetypes) | **Get** /api/v1/resource-types | List existing Resource Types.
*ResourceTypesApi* | [**ReplaceResourceType**](docs/ResourceTypesApi.md#replaceresourcetype) | **Put** /api/v1/resource-types/{id} | Replace an existing Resource Type
*ResourcesApi* | [**CreateResource**](docs/ResourcesApi.md#createresource) | **Post** /api/v1/resources/{appId}/{resourceTypes} | Create a new Resource
*ResourcesApi* | [**ListResourcesOfType**](docs/ResourcesApi.md#listresourcesoftype) | **Get** /api/v1/resources/{appId}/{resourceTypes} | List resources of a specific type
*SchemasApi* | [**CreateSCIMSchema**](docs/SchemasApi.md#createscimschema) | **Post** /api/v1/scim-schemas | Create a new SCIM Schema
*SchemasApi* | [**GetSCIMSchema**](docs/SchemasApi.md#getscimschema) | **Get** /api/v1/scim-schemas/{id} | Retrieve an existing SCIM Schema.
*SchemasApi* | [**ReplaceSCIMSchema**](docs/SchemasApi.md#replacescimschema) | **Put** /api/v1/scim-schemas/{id} | Replace an existing SCIM Schema


## Documentation For Models

 - [App](docs/App.md)
 - [Attribute](docs/Attribute.md)
 - [AttributeSearch](docs/AttributeSearch.md)
 - [Job](docs/Job.md)
 - [List](docs/List.md)
 - [Meta](docs/Meta.md)
 - [ModelError](docs/ModelError.md)
 - [Resource](docs/Resource.md)
 - [ResourceList](docs/ResourceList.md)
 - [ResourceListAllOf](docs/ResourceListAllOf.md)
 - [ResourceType](docs/ResourceType.md)
 - [ResourceTypeList](docs/ResourceTypeList.md)
 - [ResourceTypeListAllOf](docs/ResourceTypeListAllOf.md)
 - [ResourceTypeSchemaExt](docs/ResourceTypeSchemaExt.md)
 - [ResourceTypeUi](docs/ResourceTypeUi.md)
 - [ScimSchema](docs/ScimSchema.md)
 - [Token](docs/Token.md)


## Documentation For Authorization



### oauth2


- **Type**: OAuth
- **Flow**: accessCode
- **Authorization URL**: https://crossid.us.crossid.io/oauth2/auth
- **Scopes**: 
 - **manage:read:users**: read users info
 - **write:users**: modify or remove users

Example

```golang
auth := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextAccessToken, "ACCESSTOKENSTRING")
r, err := client.Service.Operation(auth, args)
```

Or via OAuth2 module to automatically refresh tokens and perform user authentication.

```golang
import "golang.org/x/oauth2"

/* Perform OAuth2 round trip request and obtain a token */

tokenSource := oauth2cfg.TokenSource(createContext(httpClient), &token)
auth := context.WithValue(oauth2.NoContext, sw.ContextOAuth2, tokenSource)
r, err := client.Service.Operation(auth, args)
```


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author

api-engineering@crossid.io

